---
layout: post
title: "Metis: 4 Weeks In!"
date: 2017-05-03
excerpt: "Week 4 @ The Data Science World is Your Oyster"
tags: [Metis, thoughts]
comments: true
---

Can't believe we're at the 4th week of Metis. Despite the breadth of content
covered, time is really fying.  The latest focus has been on Regression and Machine Learning Techniques and it's been useful to see applications.  We've also covered Probability Theory in detail.  With all the content, I'm starting to see areas I'd enjoy (and not enjoy) working on when I transition into data science.  I'll save these thoughts for a later post though.
</br>

For our first personal project, I worked on predicting prices of Chanel bags on Tradesy (think Ebay meets Saks Fifth Avenue) based on both implicit and explicit details about the purses.  The challenge entailed web scraping using BeautifulSoup and Selenium (no API "cheating" allowed this time), feature engineering, regression analysis and major data cleanup (#likeforreal).  Due to the free form nature of the Tradesy data, as well as virtually 0 NLP and image recognition knowledge--I was at the mercy of RexEx and (somewhat promising but sparce) descriptive data.  Unfortunately, my strongest predictors for selling price were retail price and new/near new condition--(mandatory UI fields) hardly anything surprising.  Once we learn more sophisticated techniques, I think I'll revisit this project.  But note to Tradesy, standardizing, at least, the purse names could perhaps make it easier to find products and drive up sales.  (There were over 25000 for Chanel purses.) 
</br>

So back to my thoughts on Metis.  Before starting the bootcamp, more than a few people asked me why I didn't just teach myself the material?  "You're paying and losing three months of your salary..."  I'm really pleased with my decision.  No way I could teach myself all this material in three months, with work and other distractions, and the diversity of the backgrounds and thought approaches is really valuable.  Being away from my
job and field, also allows me to reaccess as I go along.  So verdict: totally worth it!


